<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>I</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-1" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h2>
			<p>The redheaded girl sank into the seat in the middle of the first row with a gasp of relief. Sixth seat from the aisle‚ÅÝ‚Äîyes, that was right; the label on the arm of the golden-oak chair stared up at her reassuringly. Row A, seat 15, Philadelphia <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Planet</i>. The ones on either side of her were empty. Well, it was a relief to know that there were four feet of space left unoccupied in Redfield, even if only temporarily. She was still shaken into breathless stupor by the pandemonium in the corridors outside‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe rattling of regiments of typewriters, of armies of tickers, the shouts of infuriated denizens of telephone booths, the hurrying, frantic faces of officials, the scurrying and scampering of dozens of rusty-haired freckled-faced insubordinate small boys, whose olive-drab messenger uniforms alone saved them from extermination; the newspaper men‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou could spot them at once, looking exhausted and alert and elaborately bored; the newspaper women, keen and purposeful and diverted; and above and around and below all these licensed inhabitants, the crowd‚ÅÝ‚Äîa vast, jostling, lunging beast, with one supreme motive galvanizing it to action‚ÅÝ‚Äîan immense, a devouring curiosity that sent it surging time and time again against the closed glass doors with their blue-coated guardians, fragile barriers between it and the consummation of its desire. For just beyond those doors lay the arena where the beast might slake its hunger at will, and it was not taking its frustration of that privilege amiably.</p>
			<p>The redheaded girl set her little black-feathered hat straight with unsteady fingers. She wasn‚Äôt going to forget that crowd in a hurry. It had growled at her‚ÅÝ‚Äîactually growled‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhen she‚Äôd fought her way through it, armed with the magic of the little blue ticket that spelled ‚Äúopen sesame‚Äù as well as ‚Äúpress section.‚Äù Who could have believed that even curiosity would turn nice old gray-headed ladies and mild-looking gentlemen with brown moustaches and fat matrons with leather bags and thin flappers with batik scarfs into one huge ravenous beast? She panted again, reminiscently, at the thought of the way they‚Äôd shoved and squashed and kneaded‚ÅÝ‚Äîand then settled down to gratified inspection.</p>
			<p>So this was a courtroom!</p>
			<p>Not a very large or very impressive room, looked at from any angle. It might hold three hundred people at a pinch, and there were, conservatively, about three thousand crowding the corridors and walking the streets of Redfield in their efforts to expand its limits. Fan-shaped, with nine rows of the golden-oak seats packed with grimly triumphant humanity, the first three neatly tagged with the little white labels that metamorphosed them into the press section. Golden-oak panelling halfway up the walls, and then whitewashed plaster‚ÅÝ‚Äîrather dingy, smoky plaster, its defects relentlessly revealed by the pale autumnal sunshine flooding in through the great windows and the dome of many-coloured glass, lavish and heartening enough to compensate for much of the grimness and the grime.</p>
			<p>Near enough for the redheaded girl to touch was a low rail, and beyond that rail a little empty space, like a stage‚ÅÝ‚Äîempty of actors, but cluttered with chairs and tables. At the back was a small platform with a great high-backed black leather chair, and a still smaller platform on a slightly lower level, with a rail about it and a much more uncomfortable-looking chair. The judge‚Äôs seat, the witness box‚ÅÝ‚Äîshe gave a little sigh of pure uncontrollable excitement, and a voice next to her said affably:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHi! Greetings, stranger, or hail, friend, as the case may be. Can I get by you into the next seat without damaging you and those feet of yours materially?‚Äù</p>
			<p>The redheaded girl scrambled guiltily to the offending feet unobtrusive enough in themselves, but most obtrusively extended across the narrow passage, and turned a flushed and anxious countenance on her cheerful critic, now engaged in folding himself competently into the exiguous space provided by the golden-oak chair. A tall lanky young man, with a straight nose, mouse-coloured hair, shrewd gray eyes, and an expression that was intended to be that of a hard-boiled cynic, and that worked all right unless he grinned. He wore a shabby tweed suit, a polka-dotted tie, had three very sharp pencils, and a good-sized stack of telegraph blanks clasped to his heart. Obviously a reporter‚ÅÝ‚Äîa real reporter. The redheaded girl attempted to conceal her gold pencil and leather-bound notebook, smiling tentatively and ingratiatingly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCovering it for a New York paper?‚Äù inquired the Olympian one graciously.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo,‚Äù said the redheaded girl humbly; ‚Äúa Philadelphia one‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe Philadelphia <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Planet</i>. Is yours New York?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúM‚Äôm‚ÅÝ‚Äîh‚Äôm‚ÅÝ‚Äî<i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Sphere</i>. Doing colour stuff?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, I hope so,‚Äù replied the redheaded girl so fervently that the reporter looked somewhat startled. ‚ÄúYou see, I don‚Äôt know whether it will have colour or not. I‚Äôm not exactly a regular reporter.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, you aren‚Äôt, aren‚Äôt you? Well, if it‚Äôs no secret, just exactly what are you? A fingerprint expert?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm a‚ÅÝ‚Äîa writer,‚Äù said the redheaded girl, looking unusually small and dignified. ‚ÄúThis is my first as‚ÅÝ‚Äîassignment.‚Äù It was frightful to stammer just when you particularly wanted not to.</p>
			<p>The real reporter eyed her severely. ‚ÄúA writer, hey? A real, honest-to-goodness, walking-around writer, with a fountain pen and a great big vocabulary and a world of promise and everything? Well, I‚Äôll bet you a hot dog to a soup plate of fresh caviar that about four days from now you‚Äôll be parading through these marble halls telling the cockeyed world that you‚Äôre a journalist.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, I wouldn‚Äôt dare. Do all of you call yourselves journalists?‚Äù</p>
			<p>The reporter looked as though he were about to suffocate. ‚ÄúGet this,‚Äù he said impressively: ‚ÄúThe day that you hear me call myself a journalist you have my full and free permission to call me a ‚∏ª. Well, no, on second thought, a lady couldn‚Äôt. But if you ever call me a journalist, smile. And if you solemnly swear never to call yourself one I‚Äôll show you the ropes a bit, because you‚Äôre a poor ignorant little writing critter that doesn‚Äôt know any better than to come to a murder trial‚ÅÝ‚Äîand besides that you have red hair. Want to know anything?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh,‚Äù cried the redheaded girl, ‚ÄúI didn‚Äôt know that anyone so horrid could be so nice. I want to know everything. Let‚Äôs begin at the beginning.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, in case you don‚Äôt know where you are, this is the courtroom of Redfield, county seat of Bellechester, twenty-five miles from the great metropolis of New York. And in case you‚Äôd like to know what it‚Äôs all about, it‚Äôs the greatest murder trial of the century‚ÅÝ‚Äîabout every two years another one of ‚Äôem comes along. This particular one is the trial of the People versus Susan Ives and Stephen Bellamy for the wilful, deliberate, and malicious murder of Madeleine Bellamy.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúA murder trial,‚Äù said the redheaded girl softly. ‚ÄúWell, I should think that ought to be about the most tremendous thing in the world.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, you do, do you?‚Äù remarked the reporter, and for a moment it was no effort at all for him to look cynical. ‚ÄúWell, I‚Äôll have you called at about seven tomorrow morning, though it‚Äôs a pity ever to wake anyone up that can have such beautiful dreams as that. The most tremendous thing in the world, says she. Well, well, well!‚Äù</p>
			<p>The redheaded girl eyed him belligerently. ‚ÄúWell, yourself! Perhaps you‚Äôll be good enough to tell me what‚Äôs more tremendous than murder.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, you tell me!‚Äù urged the reporter persuasively.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAll right, I‚Äôll tell you that the only story that you‚Äôre going to be able to interest every human being in, from the President of the United States to the gentleman who takes away the ashes, is a good murder story. It‚Äôs the one universal solvent. The old lady from Dubuque will be at it the first thing in the morning, and the young lady from Park Avenue will be at it the last thing at night. And if it‚Äôs a love story too, you‚Äôre lucky, because then you‚Äôve got the combination that every really great writer that ever lived has picked out to wring hearts and freeze the marrow in posterity‚Äôs bones.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, come! Aren‚Äôt you getting just a dash overwrought? Every great writer? What about Wordsworth?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, pooh!‚Äù said the redheaded girl fiercely. ‚ÄúWordsworth! What about Sophocles and Euripides and Shakespeare and Browning? Do you know what ‚Äò<span epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">The Ring and the Book</span>‚Äô is? It‚Äôs a murder trial! What‚Äôs <i epub:type="se:name.publication.play">Othello</i> but a murder story? What‚Äôs <i epub:type="se:name.publication.play">Hamlet</i> but five murder stories? What‚Äôs <i epub:type="se:name.publication.play">Macbeth</i>? Or <i epub:type="se:name.publication.play">The Cenci</i>? Or ‚Äò<span epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Lamia</span>‚Äô? Or <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Crime and Punishment</i>? Or <i epub:type="se:name.music.opera">Carmen</i>? Or‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI give up,‚Äù said the reporter firmly‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äúor, no, wait a moment‚ÅÝ‚Äîcan it be that they are murder stories? Quite a little reader in your quiet way, aren‚Äôt you?‚Äù</p>
			<p>The redheaded girl ignored him sternly. ‚ÄúAnd do you want me to tell you why it‚Äôs the most enthralling and absorbing theme in the world? Do you?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo,‚Äù replied the reporter hastily. ‚ÄúYes‚ÅÝ‚Äîor how shall I put it? Yes and no, let‚Äôs say.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs because it‚Äôs real,‚Äù said the redheaded girl, with a sudden startling gravity. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs the only thing that‚Äôs absolutely real in the world, I think. Something that makes you reckless enough not to care a tinker‚Äôs dam for your own life or another‚Äôs‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat‚Äôs something to think about, isn‚Äôt it?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, yes,‚Äù said the reporter slowly. ‚ÄúNow that you put it that way, that‚Äôs something to think about.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs good for us, too,‚Äù said the girl, ‚ÄúWe‚Äôre all so everlastingly canny and competent and sophisticated these days, going mechanically through a mechanical world, sharpening up our little emotions, tuning up our little sensations‚ÅÝ‚Äîand suddenly there‚Äôs a cry of ‚ÄòMurder!‚Äô in the streets, and we stop and look back, shuddering, over our shoulder‚ÅÝ‚Äîand across us falls the shadow of a savage with a bloodstained club, and we know that it‚Äôs good and dangerous and beautiful to be alive.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI rather get you,‚Äù said the reporter thoughtfully. ‚ÄúAnd, strangely enough, there‚Äôs just a dash in what you say. It‚Äôs the same nice, creepy, luxurious feeling that you get when you pull up closer to a good roaring fire with carpet slippers on your feet and a glass of something hot and sweet in your hand and listen to the wind yowling outside and see the rain on the black windowpanes. Nothing in the world to make you feel warm and safe and sheltered and cozy like a good storm or a good murder‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhat?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNothing in the world,‚Äù agreed the redheaded girl; and she added pensively, ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs always interested me more than anything else.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHas it indeed? Well, don‚Äôt let it get you. I‚Äôd just keep it as a hobby if I were you. At your present gait you‚Äôre going to make some fellow an awfully happy widow one of these days. Are you a good marksman?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou think that murder‚Äôs frightfully amusing, don‚Äôt you?‚Äù The redheaded girl‚Äôs soft voice had a sudden edge to it.</p>
			<p>The real reporter‚Äôs face changed abruptly. ‚ÄúNo, I don‚Äôt,‚Äù he said shortly. ‚ÄúI think it‚Äôs rotten‚ÅÝ‚Äîa dirty, bloody, beastly business that used to keep me awake nights until I grew a shell over my skin and acquired a fairly workable sense of humour to use on all these clowns called human beings. Of course, I‚Äôm one of them myself, but I don‚Äôt boast about it. And if you‚Äôre suffering from the illusion that nothing shocks me, I‚Äôll tell you right now that it shocks me any amount that a scrap of a thing like you, with all that perfectly good red hair and a rather nice arrangement in dimples, should be practically climbing over that rail in your frenzy to find out what it‚Äôs all about.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI think that men are the most amusing race in the world,‚Äù murmured the redheaded girl. ‚ÄúAnd I think that it‚Äôs awfully appealing of you to be shocked. But, you see, my grandfather‚ÅÝ‚Äîwho was as stern and Scotch and hidebound as anyone that ever breathed‚ÅÝ‚Äîtold me when I was fourteen years old that a great murder trial was the most superbly dramatic spectacle that the world afforded. And he ought to have known what he was talking about‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe was one of the greatest judges that ever lived.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, maybe they were in his day. And you said Scotch, didn‚Äôt you? Oh, well, they do it better over there. England, too‚ÅÝ‚Äîbunches of flowers on the clerks‚Äô tables and wigs on the judges‚Äô heads, and plenty of scarlet and gold, and all the great lawyers in the land taking a whack at it, and never a cross word out of one of them‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe used to say that is was like a hunt,‚Äù interrupted the redheaded girl firmly, ‚Äúwith the judge as master of the hounds and the lawyers as the hounds, baying as they ran hot on the scent, and all the rest of us galloping hard at their heels‚ÅÝ‚Äîjury, spectators, public.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSure,‚Äù said the reporter grimly. ‚ÄúWith the quarry waiting, bound and shackled and gagged till they catch up with him and tear him to pieces‚ÅÝ‚Äîit‚Äôs a great hunt all right, all right!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs not a human being that they‚Äôre hunting, idiot‚ÅÝ‚Äîit‚Äôs truth.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúTruth!‚Äù The reporter‚Äôs laugh was loud and long and free enough to cause a dozen heads to turn. ‚ÄúOh, what you‚Äôre going to learn before you get out of here! A hunt for truth, is it? Well, now, you get this straight: If that‚Äôs what you‚Äôre expecting to find here, you‚Äôll save yourself a whole lot of bad minutes by taking the next train back to Philadelphia. Truth! I‚Äôm not running down murder trials from the point of view of interest, you understand. A really good one furnishes all the best points of a first-class dog fight and a highly superior crossword puzzle, and that ought to be enough excitement for anyone. But if you think that the opposing counsel are honestly in pursuit of enlightenment‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>A clear high voice cut through the rustle and clatter like a knife.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHis Honour! His Honour the Court!‚Äù There was a mighty rustle of upheaval.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWho‚Äôs that?‚Äù inquired a breathless voice at the reporter‚Äôs shoulder.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs the tallest and nicest court crier in the United States of America. Name‚Äôs Ben Potts. Best falsetto voice outside the Russian Orthodox Church. Kindly notice the central hair part and spit curls. And here we have none other than His Honour himself, Judge Anthony Bristed Carver.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHear ye! Hear ye! Hear ye!‚Äù chanted the court crier. ‚ÄúAll those having business before this honourable court draw near, give your attention and you shall be heard!‚Äù</p>
			<p>The tall figure in flowing black moved deliberately toward the chair on the dais, which immediately assumed the aspect of a throne. Judge Carver‚Äôs sleek iron-gray head and aquiline face were an adornment to any courtroom. He swept a pair of brilliant deep-set eyes over the room, seated himself, and reached for the gavel in one motion.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd he‚Äôll use it, too, believe you me,‚Äù murmured the reporter with conviction. ‚ÄúSternest old guy on the bench.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhere are the prisoners‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhere do they come from?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe defendants, as they whimsically prefer to be called for the time being, come through that little door to the left of the judge‚Äôs room; that enormous red-faced, sandy-haired old duffer talking to the thin young man in the tortoiseshell glasses is <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝIves‚Äôs counsel, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝDudley Lambert; the begoggled one is <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝBellamy‚Äôs counsel, Harrison Clark.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhere‚Äôs the prosecutor?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, well, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝFarr is liable to appear almost anywhere, like Mephistopheles in <i epub:type="se:name.publication.play">Faust</i> or that baby that so obligingly came out of the everywhere into the here. He‚Äôs all for the unexpected‚ÅÝ‚ÄîAh, what did I tell you? There he is now, conferring with the judge and the defense counsel.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The redheaded girl leaned forward eagerly. The slender individual, leaning with rather studied ease against the railing that hedged in the majesty of the law, suggested a curious cross between a promising light of Tammany Hall and the youngest and handsomest of the Spanish Inquisitioners. Black hair that deserved the qualification of raven, a pale regular face that missed distinction by a destructive quarter of an inch, narrow blue eyes back of which stirred some restless fire, long slim hands‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhat was there about him that wasn‚Äôt just right? Perhaps that dark coat fitted him just a shade too well, or that heavily brocaded tie in peacock blue‚ÅÝ‚ÄîWell, at any rate, his slim elegance certainly made Lambert look like an awkward, cross, red-faced baby, for all his thatch of graying hair.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHere they come!‚Äù Even the reporter‚Äôs level, mocking voice was a trifle tense.</p>
			<p>The little door to the left of the judge opened and two people came in, as leisurely and tranquilly as though they were advancing toward easy chairs and a tea table before an open fire. A slight figure in a tan tweed suit, with a soft copper silk handkerchief at her throat and a little felt hat of the same colour pulled down over two wings of pale gold hair, level hazel eyes under level dark brows, and a beautiful mouth, steady-lipped, generous, sensitive‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe most beautiful mouth, thought the redheaded girl, that she had ever seen. She crossed the short distance between the door and the chair beside which stood <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝLambert with a light, boyish swing. She looked rather like a boy‚ÅÝ‚Äîa gallant, proud little boy, striding forward to receive the victor‚Äôs laurels. Did murderesses walk like that?</p>
			<p>Behind her came Stephen Bellamy, the crape band on his dark coat appallingly conspicuous; only a few inches taller than Sue Ives, with dark hair lightly silvered, and a charming, sensitive, olive-skinned face. As they seated themselves, he flashed the briefest of smiles at his companion‚ÅÝ‚Äîa grave, consoling smile, singularly sweet‚ÅÝ‚Äîthen turned an attentive countenance to the judge. Did a murderer smile like that?</p>
			<p>The redheaded girl sat staring at them blankly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, Lord!‚Äù moaned the reporter at her side. ‚ÄúWhy did that old jackass Lambert let her come in here in that rig? If he had the sense that God gives a dead duck he‚Äôd know that she ought to be wearing something black and frilly and pitiful instead of stamping around in brown leather Oxfords as though she were headed straight for the first tee instead of the electric chair.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, don‚Äôt!‚Äù The redheaded girl‚Äôs voice was passionate in its protest. ‚ÄúYou don‚Äôt know what you‚Äôre talking about. Look, what are they doing now? What‚Äôs that wheel?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs for choosing the jury; it looks as though they were going to start right now. Yes, they‚Äôre off; that‚Äôs the sheriff spinning the wheel. He calls the names‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúTimothy Forbes!‚Äù</p>
			<p>A stocky man with a small shrewd eye and a reddish moustache wormed his way forward.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNumber 1! Take your seat in the box.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWill it take long?‚Äù asked the redheaded girl.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAlexander Petty!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot at this rate,‚Äù replied the reporter, watching the progress toward the jury box of a towheaded little man with steel-bowed spectacles and a suit a little shiny at the elbows.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThis is going to be just as rapid as the law allows, I understand. Both sides are rarin‚Äô to go, and they‚Äôre not liable to touch their peremptory challenges; and they‚Äôre not likely to challenge for cause, either, unless it‚Äôs a darned good cause.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúEliphalet Slocum!‚Äù</p>
			<p>A keen-faced elderly man with a mouth like a steel trap joined the men in the box.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs a special panel that they‚Äôre choosing from,‚Äù explained the reporter, lowering his voice cautiously as Judge Carver glanced ominously in his direction. ‚ÄúRedfield‚Äôs pretty up and coming for a place of its size. All the obviously undesirables are weeded out, so it saves an enormous amount of time.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCaesar Smith!‚Äù</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSmith advanced at a trot, his round, amiable countenance beamingly exposing three gold teeth to the pleased spectators.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúRobert Angostini.‚Äù</p>
			<p>A dark and dapper individual with a silky black moustache slipped quietly by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSmith.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNumber 5, take your place in the box.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ George Hobart.‚Äù</p>
			<p>An amiable-looking youth in a brown Norfolk jacket advanced briskly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWho‚Äôs that coming in now?‚Äù inquired the redheaded girl in a stealthy whisper.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhere?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIn the witnesses‚Äô seats‚ÅÝ‚Äîover in the corner by the window. The tall man with the darling little old lady.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The reporter turned his head, his boredom lit by a transient gleam of interest. ‚ÄúThat? That‚Äôs Pat Ives and his mother. She‚Äôs been subpoenaed by the state as a witness‚ÅÝ‚ÄîGod knows what for.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI love them when they wear bonnets,‚Äù said the redheaded girl. ‚ÄúWhat‚Äôs he like?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPat? Well, take a good look at him; that‚Äôs what he‚Äôs like.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The redheaded girl obediently took a good look. Black hair, blue eyes, black with pain, set in a haggard, beautiful young face that looked white to the bone, a reckless mouth set in a line of desperation.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe doesn‚Äôt look very contented,‚Äù she commented mildly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd his looks don‚Äôt belie him,‚Äù the reporter assured her drily. ‚ÄúYoung <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝIves belongs to the romantic school‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou know‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe guardsman, the troubadour, the rover, and the lover; the duel by candlelight, the rose in the moonlight, the dice, the devil and boots, saddle, to horse and away. The type that muffs it when he‚Äôs thrown into a show that deals in the crude realism of spilled kerosene and bloody rags and an Italian labourer‚Äôs stuffy little front parlour. Mix him up with that and he gets shadows under his eyes and three degrees of fever and bad dreams. Also, he gets a little irritable with reporters.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDid you interview him?‚Äù inquired the redheaded girl in awestricken tones.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, that‚Äôs a nice way of putting it,‚Äù said the reporter thoughtfully. ‚ÄúI went around to the Ives‚Äô house with one or two other scientific spirits on the night after Sue Ives and Bellamy were arrested‚ÅÝ‚Äî<time datetime="1926-06-21">June twenty-first</time>, if my memory serves me. We rang the doorbell none too optimistically, and the door opened so suddenly that we practically fell flat on our faces in the front hall. There stood the debonair <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝIves, in his shirt sleeves, with as unattractive a look on his face as I‚Äôve ever seen in my life.</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòCome right in, gentlemen,‚Äô says he, and he made that sound unattractive too. ‚ÄòI‚Äôm not mistaken, am I? It‚Äôs the gentlemen of the press that I‚Äôm addressing?‚Äô We allowed without too much enthusiasm that such was indeed the case, and in we came. ‚ÄòLet‚Äôs get right down to business,‚Äô he said. ‚ÄòNone of this absurd delicacy that uses up all your energy,‚Äô says he. ‚ÄòWhat you gentlemen want to know, I‚Äôm sure, is whether I was Madeleine Bellamy‚Äôs lover and whether my wife was her murderess. That‚Äôs about it, isn‚Äôt it?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt was just about it, but somehow, the way he put it, it sounded not so good. ‚ÄòWell,‚Äô said Ives, I‚Äôll give you a good straight answer to a good straight question. Get to hell out of here!‚Äô says he, and he yanks the front door open so wide that it would have let out an army.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúJust as I was thinking of something really bright to come back with, a nice soft little voice in the back of the hall said, ‚ÄòOh, Pat darling, do be careful. You‚Äôll wake up the babies. I‚Äôm sure that these gentlemen will come back another time,‚Äô And <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝDaniel Ives trotted up and put one hand on his arm and smiled a nice, worried, polite little smile at us.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd Pat darling smiled, too, not so everlastingly politely, and said, ‚ÄòI‚Äôm sure they will‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI‚Äôm sure of it. Four o‚Äôclock in the morning‚Äôs a good time too.‚Äô And we decided that was as good a time as any and we went away from there. And here we are. And if you don‚Äôt look sharp they‚Äôll have a jury before you understand why I know that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝIves is the romantic type that lets realism get on his nerves. What number is that heading for the box now?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOtto Schultz!‚Äù</p>
			<p>A cozy white-headed cherub trotted energetically up.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNumber 10, take your place in the box!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúJosiah Morgan!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGosh, they‚Äôll get the whole panel in under an hour!‚Äù exulted the reporter. ‚ÄúLook at the fine hatchet face on Morgan, will you? I bet the fellow that tries to sell Josh a lame horse will live to rue the day.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCharles Stuyvesant!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Charles Stuyvesant smiled pleasantly at the sheriff, his fine iron-gray head and trim shoulders standing out sharply against his overgroomed and undergroomed comrades in the box.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNumber 12, take your place in the box! You and each of you do solemnly swear that you will well and truly try Stephen Bellamy and Susan Ives, and a true verdict give according to the law and evidence, so help you God?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Above the grave answering murmur the redheaded girl begged nervously, ‚ÄúWhat happens now?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt know‚ÅÝ‚Äîrecess, maybe‚ÅÝ‚Äîwait, the judge is addressing the jury.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Judge Carver‚Äôs deep voice rang out impressively in the still courtroom:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGentlemen of the jury, you will now be given the usual admonition‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat you are not to discuss this case amongst yourselves, or allow anybody else to discuss it with you, outside your own body. You are not to form or express any opinion about the merits of the controversy. You are to refrain from speaking of it to anybody, or from allowing anybody to speak to you with respect to any aspect of this case. If this occurs you will communicate it to the Court at once. You are to keep your judgment open until the defendants have had their side of the case heard, and, lastly, you are to make up your judgment solely on the law, which is the last thing that you will hear from the Court in its charge. Until then, you will not be able to render a verdict in accordance with the law, and therefore you must suspend judgment until that time. The Court is dismissed for the noon recess. We will reconvene at one o‚Äôclock.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The redheaded girl turned eyes round as saucers on the reporter. ‚ÄúDon‚Äôt they come back till one?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThey do not.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat do we do until then?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWe eat. There‚Äôs a fair place on the next corner.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The redheaded girl waved it away. ‚ÄúOh, I couldn‚Äôt possibly eat‚ÅÝ‚Äînot possibly. It‚Äôs like the first time I went to the theatre; I was only seven, but I remember it perfectly. I sat spang in the middle of the front row, just like this, and I made my governess take me three quarters of an hour too early, and I sat there getting sicker and sicker from pure excitement, wondering what kind of a new world was behind that curtain‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhat kind of a strange, beautiful, terrible world. I sat there feeling more frightful every second, and all of a sudden the curtain went up with a jerk and I let out a shriek that made everyone in the theatre and on the stage jump three feet in the air. I feel exactly like that now.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, get hold of yourself. Shrieking isn‚Äôt popular around here. If you sit right there like a good quiet child I may bring you back an apple. I don‚Äôt promise anything, but I may.‚Äù</p>
			<p>She was still sitting there when he came back with the apple, crunched up in her chair, staring at the jury box with eyes rounder than ever.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIsn‚Äôt it nearly time?‚Äù She eyed the apple ungratefully.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt is. Come on now, eat it, and I‚Äôll show you what I‚Äôve got in my pocket.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúShow?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe jury list‚ÅÝ‚Äînames, addresses, ages, professions and all. Two of them are under thirty, three under forty, four under fifty, two under sixty, one sixty-two. Three merchants, two clerks, two farmers, an insurance man, an accountant, a radio expert, a jeweller and a banker. Not a bad list at all, if you ask me. Charles Stuyvesant‚Äôs the only one that won‚Äôt have a good clubby time of it. He‚Äôs one of the richest bankers in New York.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe looked it,‚Äù said the redheaded girl. ‚ÄúWhat will they do when they come back?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, if they‚Äôre good, the prosecutor‚Äôs going to make them a nice little speech.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWho is the prosecutor? Is he well known?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚Äú<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝDaniel Farr is a promising young lad of about forty who is extremely well known in these parts, and if you asked him his own unbiased opinion of his abilities, he would undoubtedly tell you that with a bit of luck he ought to be President of these United States in the next ten years.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd what do you think of him?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, I think that he may be, at that, and I add in passing that I consider that no tribute to the judgment of these United States. He‚Äôs about as shrewd as they make ‚Äôem, but I‚Äôm not convinced that he‚Äôs a very good lawyer. He goes in too much for purple patches and hitting about three inches below the belt for my simple tastes. And he works on the theory that the jury is not quite all there, which may be amply justified but is a little trying for the innocent bystander. He goes in for poetry, too‚ÅÝ‚Äîoh, not Amy Lowell or Ezra Pound, but something along the lines of ‚ÄòI could not love thee, dear, so much, loved I not honour more,‚Äô and ‚ÄòHow dear to my heart are the scenes of my childhood‚Äô‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou know the kind of thing‚ÅÝ‚Äîdeep stuff.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIs he successful?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, by all manner of means. Twenty years ago he was caddie master at the Rosemont Country Club; five years before that he was a caddie there. America, my child, is the land of opportunity. He‚Äôs magnificent when he gets started on the idle rich; it‚Äôs all right to be rich if you‚Äôre not idle‚ÅÝ‚Äîor wellborn. If you‚Äôre one of those wellborn society devils, you might just as well go and jump in the lake, if you ask <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝFarr.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDoes he still live in Rosemont?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo, hasn‚Äôt lived there for nineteen years; but I don‚Äôt believe that he‚Äôs forgotten one single snub or tip that he got in the good old days. Every now and then you can see him stop and turn them over in his mind.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat‚Äôs <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝLambert like?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAh, there is a horse of a different colour‚ÅÝ‚Äîa cart horse of a different colour, if I may go so far. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝDudley Lambert is a lawyer who knows everything that there is to know about wills and trusts and estates, and not another blessed thing in the world. If he‚Äôs as good now as he was when I heard him in a case two years ago, he‚Äôs terrible. I can‚Äôt wait to hear him.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The redheaded girl looked pale. ‚ÄúOh, then, why did she get him?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAh, thereby hangs a tale. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝLambert was a sidekick of old Curtiss Thorne‚ÅÝ‚Äîhandled his estate and everything‚ÅÝ‚Äîand being a crusty old bachelor from the age of thirty on, he idolized the Thorne children. Sue was his pet. She still calls him Uncle Dudley, and when the split came between Sue and her father he stuck to Sue. So I suppose that it was fairly natural that she turned to him when this thing burst; he‚Äôs always handled all her affairs, and he‚Äôs probably told her that he‚Äôs the best lawyer this side of the Rocky Mountains. He believes it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHow old is he?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSixty-three‚ÅÝ‚Äîplenty old enough to know better. You might take everything that I say about these guys with a handful of salt; it‚Äôs only fair to inform you that they are anything but popular with the Fourth Estate. The only person that talks less in this world than Dudley Lambert is Daniel Farr; either of them would make a closed steel trap seem like a chatterbox. Stephen Bellamy‚Äôs counsel is Lambert‚Äôs junior partner and under both his thumbs; he‚Äôd be a nice chap if he didn‚Äôt have lockjaw.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDon‚Äôt they tell you anything at all?‚Äù inquired the redheaded girl sympathetically.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThey tell us that there‚Äôs been a murder,‚Äù replied the reporter gloomily. ‚ÄúAnd I‚Äôm telling you that it‚Äôs the only murder that ever took place in the United States of America where the press has been treated like an orphan child by everyone that knows one earthly thing about it. Not one word of the hearing before the grand jury has leaked out to anyone; we haven‚Äôt been given the name of one witness, and whatever the state‚Äôs case against Stephen Bellamy and Susan Ives may be, it‚Äôs a carefully guarded secret between <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝDaniel Farr and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝDaniel Farr. The defense is just as expansive. So don‚Äôt believe all you hear from me. I‚Äôd boil the lot of ‚Äôem in oil. Here comes Ben Potts. To be continued in our next.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The redheaded girl wasn‚Äôt listening to him; she was watching the dark figure of the prosecutor, moving leisurely forward toward the little space where twelve men were seating themselves quietly and unostentatiously in their stiff, uncomfortable chairs. Twelve men‚ÅÝ‚Äîtwelve everyday, ordinary, average men‚ÅÝ‚ÄîShe drew a sharp breath and turned her face away for a minute. The curtain was going up.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMay it please Your Honour‚Äù‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe prosecutor‚Äôs voice was very low, but as penetrating as though he were a handbreadth away‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äúmay it please Your Honour and gentlemen of the jury: On the night of the <time datetime="1926-06-19">nineteenth of June, 1926</time>, a little less than four months ago, a singularly cruel and ruthless murder took place not ten miles from the spot in which we have met to try the two who are accused of perpetrating it. On that summer night, which was made for youth and love and beauty, a girl who was young and beautiful and most desperately in love came out through the starlight to meet her lover. She had no right to meet him. She was another man‚Äôs wife, he was another woman‚Äôs husband. But love had made her reckless, and she came, with a black cloak flung over her white lace dress, and silver slippers that were made for dancing on feet that were made to dance‚ÅÝ‚Äîand that had danced for the last time. She was bound for the gardener‚Äôs cottage on one of the largest and oldest estates in the neighbourhood, known as Orchards. At the time of the murder, it was not occupied, and the house was for sale. She was hurrying, because she feared that she was late and that her lover might be waiting. But it was not love that waited for her in the little sitting room of the gardener‚Äôs cottage.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIf you men who sit here in judgment of her murderers think harshly of that pretty, flushed, enchanted girl hurrying through the night to her tryst, remember that that tryst was with death, not with love, and be gentle with her, even in your thoughts. She has paid more dearly for the crime of loving not wisely but too well than many of her righteous sisters.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNext morning, at about nine o‚Äôclock, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHerbert Conroy, a real-estate agent, arrived at the gardener‚Äôs cottage with a prospective client for the estate who wished to inspect the property. As he came up on the little porch he was surprised to see that the front door was slightly ajar, and thinking that sneak thieves might have broken in, he pushed it farther open and went in.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe first floor at the right of the narrow hall was the sitting room‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhat was known by the people who had formerly used it as the front parlour. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝConroy stepped across its threshold, and his eyes fell on a truly appalling sight. Stretched out on the floor before him was a young woman in a white lace evening gown. A table was overturned beside her. Either there had been a struggle or the table had been upset as she fell. At her feet were the fragments of a shattered lamp chimney and china shade and a brass lamp.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe girl‚Äôs white frock was stained with blood from throat to hem; her silk stockings were clotted with it; even her silver slippers were ruinously stained. She was known to have been wearing a string of pearls, her wedding ring, and three sapphire-and-diamond rings when she left home. These jewels were missing. The girl on the floor‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe girl who had been wilfully and cruelly stabbed to death‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe girl whose pretty frock had been turned into a ghastly mockery, was Madeleine Bellamy, of whose murder the two defendants before you are jointly accused.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe man on trial is Stephen Bellamy, the husband of the murdered girl. The woman who sits beside him is Susan Ives, the wife of Patrick Ives, who was the lover of Madeleine Bellamy and to whom she was going on that ill-starred night in June.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMurder, gentlemen, is an ugly and repellent thing; but this murder, I think that you will agree, is a peculiarly ugly and repellent one. It is repellent because it is the State‚Äôs contention that it was committed by a woman of birth, breeding, and refinement, to whose every instinct the very thought should have been abhorrent‚ÅÝ‚Äîbecause this lady was driven to this crime by a motive singularly sordid‚ÅÝ‚Äîbecause at her side stood a devoted husband, changed by jealousy to a beast to whom the death of his wife had become more precious than her life. It is peculiarly repellent because we propose to show that these two, with her blood still on their hands, were cool, collected, and deliberate enough to remove the jewels that she wore from her dead body in order to make this murder seem to involve robbery as a motive.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIn order to be able fully to grasp the significance of the evidence that we propose to present to you, it is necessary that you should know something of the background against which these actors played their tragic parts. As briefly as possible, then, I will sketch it for you.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBellechester County‚ÅÝ‚Äîyour county, gentlemen, and thank God, my county‚ÅÝ‚Äîcontains as many beautiful homes and delightful communities as any county in this state‚ÅÝ‚Äîor in any other state, for that matter‚ÅÝ‚Äîand no more delightful one exists than that of Rosemont, a small village about ten miles south of this courthouse. The village itself is a flourishing little place, but the real centre of attraction is the country club, about two miles from the village limits. About this centre cluster some charming homes, and in one of the most charming of them, a low, rambling, remodelled farmhouse, lived Patrick Ives and his wife. Patrick Ives is a man of about thirty-two who has made a surprising place for himself as a partner in one of the most conservative and successful investment banking houses in New York. I say surprising advisedly, for everyone was greatly surprised when about seven years ago he married Susan Thorne and settled down to serious work for the first time in his life. Up till that time, with the exception of two years at the front establishing a brilliant war record, he seems to have spent most of his time perfecting his golf game and his foxtrotting abilities and devoting the small portion of time that remained at his disposal to an anaemic real-estate business. According to all reports, he was‚ÅÝ‚Äîand is‚ÅÝ‚Äîlikable, charming and immensely popular.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúJust one moment, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝFarr,‚Äù Judge Carver‚Äôs deep tones cut abruptly across the prosecutor‚Äôs clear, urgent voice. ‚ÄúDo you propose to prove all these statements?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCertainly, Your Honour.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI do not wish in any way to hamper you, but some of this seems a little far afield.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI can assure Your Honour that the State proposes to connect all these facts with its case.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúVery well, you may proceed.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAt the time of the murder <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝIves‚Äôs household consisted of his wife, Susan Thorne Ives; his two children, Peter and Polly, aged five and six; his mother, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝDaniel Ives, to whom he has always been an unusually devoted son; a nursery governess, Miss Kathleen Page; and some six or seven servants. The only member of the household who concerns us immediately is Susan, or, as she is known to her friends, Sue Ives.</p>
			<p>‚Äú<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝIves is a most unusual woman. The youngest child and only daughter of the immensely wealthy Curtiss Thorne, she grew up on the old Thorne estate, Orchards, the idol of her father and her two brothers. Her mother died shortly after she was born. There was no luxury, no indulgence to which she was not accustomed from her earliest childhood. She was brilliantly intellectual and excelled at every type of athletics. Society, apparently, interested her very little; but there was not a trophy that she did not promptly capture at either golf or tennis. She was not particularly attractive to men, according to local gossip, in spite of being witty, accomplished, and charming‚ÅÝ‚Äîperhaps she was too witty and too accomplished for their peace of mind. At any rate, she set the entire community by the ears about seven years ago by running off with the handsome and impecunious Patrick Ives, just back from the war.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOld Curtiss Thorne, who detested Patrick Ives and had other plans for her, cut her off without a cent‚ÅÝ‚Äîand died two years later without a cent himself, ruined by the collapse of his business during the deflation of <time datetime="1921">1921</time>. Just what happened to Patrick and Susan Ives during the three years after the elopement, no one knows. They disappeared into the maelstrom of New York. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝDaniel Ives joined them, and somehow they must have managed to keep from starving to death. Two children were born to Susan Ives, and finally Patrick persuaded this investment house to try him out as a bond salesman. It developed that he had a positive genius for the business, and his rise has been spectacular in the extreme. He is considered today one of the most promising young men in the Street.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAt the end of four years, the Iveses and their babies returned to Rosemont. They bought an old farmhouse with some seven or eight acres about a mile from the club, remodelled it, landscaped it, put in a tennis court, and became the most sought-after young couple in Rosemont. On the surface, they seemed ideally happy. Two charming children, a charming home, plenty of money, congenial enough tastes‚ÅÝ‚Äîsuch things should go far to create a paradise, shouldn‚Äôt they? Well, down this smooth, easy, flower-strewn, and garlanded path Patrick and Susan Ives were hurrying straight toward hell. In order to understand why this was true, you must know something of two other people and their lives.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAbout a mile and a half from the Ives house was another farmhouse, on the outskirts of the village, but this one had not been remodelled. It was small, shabby, in poor repair‚ÅÝ‚Äîno tennis court, no gardens, a cheap portable garage, a meagre half acre of land inadequately surrounded by a rickety fence. Everything is comparative in this world. To the dwellers in tenements and slums, that house would have been a little palace. To the dweller in the stone palaces that line the Hudson, it would be a slum. To Madeleine Bellamy, whose home it was, it was undoubtedly a constant humiliation and irritation.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMimi Bellamy‚ÅÝ‚Äîin all likelihood no one in Rosemont had heard her called Madeleine since the day that she was christened‚ÅÝ‚ÄîMimi Bellamy was an amazingly beautiful creature. ‚ÄòBeauty‚Äô is a much cheapened and battered word; in murder trials it is loosely applied to either the victim or the murderess if either of them happened to be under fifty and not actually deformed. I am not referring to that type of beauty. Mimi Bellamy‚Äôs beauty was of the type that in Trojan days launched a thousand ships and in these days launches a musical comedy. Hers was beauty that is a disastrous gift‚ÅÝ‚Äînot the commonplace prettiness of a small-town belle, though such, it seems, was the role in which fate had cast her.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI am showing you her picture, cut from the local paper‚ÅÝ‚Äîcrudely taken, crudely printed, many times enlarged, yet even all these factors cannot dim her radiance. It was taken shortly before she died‚ÅÝ‚Äînot two months before, as a matter of fact. It cannot give the flowerlike beauty of her colouring, the red-gold hair, the sea-blue eyes, the exquisite flush of exultant youth that played about her like an enchantment; but perhaps even this cold, black-and-white shadow of a laughing girl in a flowered frock will give you enough of a suggestion of her warm enchantment to make the incredible disaster that resulted from that enchantment more credible. It is for that purpose that I am showing it to you now, and to remind you, if you feel pity for another woman, that never more again in all this world will that girl‚Äôs laughter be heard, young and careless and joyous. I ask you most solemnly to remember that.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMimi Dawson Bellamy was the daughter of the village dressmaker, who had married Frederick Dawson, a man considerably above her socially, as he was a moderately successful real-estate broker in the village of Rosemont. He was by no manner of means a member of the local smart set, however, and was not even a member of the country club. They lived in a comfortable, unpretentious house a little off the main street, and in the boarding house next to them lived <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝDaniel Ives and her son Patrick.</p>
			<p>‚Äú<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝIves, a widow, was very highly regarded in the village, to which she had come many years previously, and was extremely industrious in her efforts to supplement their meagre income. She gave music lessons, did mending, looked after small children whose mothers were at the movies, and did everything in her power to assist her son, whose principal contribution to their welfare up to the time that he was twenty-one seemed to be a genuine devotion to his mother. At that age <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝDawson took him in to work with him in the real-estate business, hoping that his charm and engaging manners would make up for his lack of experience and industry. To a certain extent they did, but they created considerably more havoc with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝDawson‚Äôs beautiful daughter than they did with his clients. A boy-and-girl affair immediately sprang up between these two‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe exquisite, precocious child of seventeen and the handsome boy of twenty-two were seen everywhere together, and it was a thoroughly understood thing that Mimi Dawson and Pat Ives were going together, and that one of these days they would go as far as the altar.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúA year later war was declared. Patrick Ives enlisted at once, and was among the first to reach France. The whole village believed that if he came back alive he would marry Mimi. But they were counting without Mimi.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWar, gentlemen, changed more things than the map of Europe. It changed the entire social map in many an American community; it changed, drastically and surprisingly, the social map of the community of Rosemont in the county of Bellechester. For the first time since the country club was built and many of the residents of New York discovered that it was possible to live in the country and work in the city, the barrier between the villagers and the country club members was lowered, and over this lowered barrier stepped Mimi Dawson, straight into the charmed sewing circles, knitting circles, Red Cross circles, bandage-making circles that had sprung up overnight‚ÅÝ‚Äîstraight, moreover, into the charmed circle of society, about whose edges she had wistfully hovered‚ÅÝ‚Äîand straight, moreover, into the life of Elliot Farwell.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúElliot Farwell was the younger brother of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝGeorge Dallas, at whose house met the Red Cross Circle of which <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝDallas was president. Many of the village girls were asked to join her class in bandage making‚ÅÝ‚Äîafter all, we were fighting this war to make the world safe for democracy, so why not be democratic? A pair of hands from the village was just as good as a pair of hands from the club‚ÅÝ‚Äîpossibly better. So little Mimi Dawson found herself sitting next to the great Miss Thorne, wrapping wisps of cotton about bits of wood and going home to the village with rapidly increasing regularity in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝElliot Farwell‚Äôs new automobile, quite without the knowledge or sanction of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝFarwell‚Äôs sister, whose democracy might not have stood the strain.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúElliot Farwell was one of the two or three young men left in Rosemont. His eyes made it impossible for him to get into any branch of the service, so he remained peaceably at home, attending to a somewhat perfunctory business in the city as a promoter. He would have had to be blind enough to require the services of a dog and a tin cup not to have noted Mimi Dawson‚Äôs beauty, however; as a matter of fact, he noted it so intently that three months after peace was declared and three weeks before Patrick Ives returned from the war, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬Ýand <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝFrederick Dawson announced the engagement of their daughter Madeleine to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝElliot Farwell‚ÅÝ‚Äîand a startled world. Not the least startled member of this world, possibly, was Susan Thorne, to whom young Farwell had been moderately attentive for several years.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSuch was the state of affairs when the tide of exodus to Europe turned, and back on the very crest of the incoming waves rode Major Patrick Ives, booted, spurred, belted, and decorated‚ÅÝ‚Äîstraight over the still-lowered barrier into the very heart of the country-club set. He was, not unnaturally, charmed with his surroundings, and apparently the fact that he found Mimi Dawson already installed there with a fianc√© did not dampen his spirits in the slightest. From the day that he first went around the golf course with Susan Thorne, he was as invariably at her side as her shadow. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝCurtiss Thorne‚Äôs open and violent disapproval left them unchastened and inseparable. Apparently they found the world well lost, as did Farwell and his fianc√©e. And into the midst of this idyllic scene, a month or so later, wanders the last of our actors, Stephen Bellamy.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúStephen Bellamy was older than these others‚ÅÝ‚Äîseven years older than Susan Thorne or Patrick Ives, twelve years older than the radiant Mimi. He was the best friend of Susan‚Äôs elder brother Douglas, and a junior partner of Curtiss Thorne. He had done well in the war, as he had in his business, and he was generally supposed to be the best masculine catch in Rosemont‚ÅÝ‚Äîintelligent, distinguished, and thoroughly substantial. It was everybody‚Äôs secret that Curtiss Thorne wanted him for his son-in-law, and he and Elliot Farwell were the nearest approaches to beaus that Susan Thorne had had before the war.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWithin a week of their respective returns, she had lost both of them. The sober, reserved, conservative Stephen Bellamy fell even more violently and abjectly a victim to Mimi Dawson‚Äôs charms than had Elliot Farwell. The fact that she was engaged to another man who had been at least a pleasant acquaintance of his did not seem to deter <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝBellamy for a second. At any rate, the <time datetime="1919-w25">third week in June in 1919</time> brought three shocks to the conservative community of Rosemont that left it rocking for many moons to come. On Monday, after a violent and public quarrel with Farwell, Mimi Dawson broke her engagement to him; on Wednesday Sue Thorne eloped with Patrick Ives, and on Thursday Miss Dawson and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝBellamy were married by the justice of the peace in this very courthouse.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt is a long stride from that amazing week in June to another June, but I ask you to make it with me. In the seven years that have passed, the seeds that were sown in those far-off days‚ÅÝ‚Äîseeds of discord, of heartbreak, of envy and malice‚ÅÝ‚Äîhave waxed and grown into a mighty vine, heavy with bitter fruit; and the day of harvest is at hand‚ÅÝ‚Äîand the hands of the harvesters shall be red. But on this peaceful sunny summer afternoon of the <time datetime="1926-06-19">nineteenth of June, 1926</time>, those who are sitting in the vine‚Äôs shadow seem to find it a tranquil and a pleasant place.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt is five o‚Äôclock at the Rosemont Country Club, and the people that I have brought before you in the brief time at my disposal are gathered on the lawn in front of the club; the golfers are just coming in; it is the prettiest and gayest hour of the day. Mimi Bellamy is there, waiting for her husband. She has driven over in their little car to take him home for supper; it is parked just now beside Sue Ives‚Äôs sleek and shining car with its sleek and shining chauffeur, and possibly Mimi Bellamy is wondering what strange fate makes one man a failure in the world of business and another a success. For the industrious and intelligent Stephen Bellamy has never recovered from the setback that he received when Curtiss Thorne‚Äôs business crashed; he is still struggling valiantly to keep a roof over his wife‚Äôs enchanting head‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe can do little more. True, they have a maid of all work and a man of all work; but Sue Ives, who married the village ne‚Äôer-do-well, has eight servants and three cars and the prettiest gardens in Rosemont. So does fate make fools of the shrewdest of us!</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGathered about in little groups are the George Dallases, Elliot Farwell, and Richard Burgoyne, the man with whom he keeps bachelor hall in a small bungalow near the village; the Ned Conroys and Sue Ives, whose husband has been cheated out of golf by a business engagement in the city, in spite of the fact that it is Saturday afternoon. She has, however, found another cavalier. Seated on the club steps, a little apart from the others, she is deep in conversation with Elliot Farwell, who is consuming his third highball in rapid succession. Gentlemen, if I could let you eavesdrop on the seemingly casual and actually momentous discussion that is going on behind those amiable masks, much that is dark to you now would be clear as day. I ask your patient and intelligent interest until that moment arrives. It will arrive, I promise you.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúFor here, on this sunlit lawn, I propose to leave them for the present. Others will tell you what happened from that sunlit moment until the dark and dreadful one in the gardener‚Äôs little cottage, when a knife rose and fell. I have not gone thus exhaustively into the shadowy past from which these figures sprang in order to retail to you the careless chatter of a country club and a country village. I have gone into it because I have felt it entirely imperative that you should know the essential facts in the light of which you will be able to read more clearly the evidence that I am about to submit to you. It is inevitable that each one of you must say to himself as you sit there: ‚ÄòHow is it possible that this young woman seated before our eyes, charming, well bred, sheltered, controlled, intelligent‚ÅÝ‚Äîhow is it possible that this woman can have wilfully, brutally, and deliberately murdered another woman? How is it possible that the man seated beside her, a gentleman born and bred, irreproachable in every phase of his past life, can have aided and abetted her in her project?‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHow are these things possible, you ask? Gentleman, I say to you that we expect to prove that these things are not possible‚ÅÝ‚Äîwe expect to prove that these things are certain. I am speaking neither rashly nor lightly when I assure you that the state believes that it can demonstrate their certainty beyond the shadow of a possible doubt. I am not seeking a conviction; I am no bloodhound baying for a victim. If you can find it in your hearts when I have done with this case to hold these two guiltless, you will, indeed, be fortunate‚ÅÝ‚Äîand I can find in my heart no desire to deprive you of that good fortune. It is my most painful duty, however, to place the facts before you and to let them speak for themselves.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI ask you, gentlemen, to bear these things in mind. Susan Ives is a woman accustomed to luxury and security; she has once before been roughly deprived of it. What dreadful scars those three years in New York left on the gallant and spirited girl who went so recklessly to face them we can only surmise. But perhaps it is sufficient to say that the scars seared so deep that they sealed her lips forever. I have not been able to discover that she has mentioned them to one solitary soul, and I have questioned many. She was threatened with a hideous repetition of this nightmare. Her religious principles, as you will learn, prevented her from ever accepting or seeking a divorce, and she was too intelligent not to be fully aware that if Patrick Ives ran away with Mimi Bellamy, he would inevitably have lost his position in the ultraconservative house in which he was partner, and thus be absolutely precluded from providing for her or her children, even if he had so desired.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe position of a young woman thrown entirely on her own resources, with two small children on her hands, is a desperate one, and it is our contention that Susan Ives turned to desperate remedies. Added to this terror was what must have been a truly appalling hatred for the girl who was about to turn her sunny and sheltered existence into a nightmare. Cupidity, love, revenge‚ÅÝ‚Äîevery murder in this world that is not the result of a drunken blow springs from one of these motives. Gentlemen, the state contends that Susan Ives was moved by all three.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAs for Stephen Bellamy, his idolatry of his young and beautiful wife was his life‚ÅÝ‚Äîa drab and colourless life save for the light and colour that she brought to it. When he discovered that she had turned that idolatry to mockery, madness descended on him‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe madness that sent Othello staggering to his wife‚Äôs bed with death in his hands; the madness that has caused that wretched catchphrase ‚Äòthe unwritten law‚Äô to become almost as potent as our written code‚ÅÝ‚Äîto our shame, be it said. Do not be deceived by the memory of that phrase, gentlemen. There was another law, written centuries ago in letters of flame on the peaks of a mountain‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚ÄòThou shalt not kill.‚Äô Remember that law written in flame and forget the one that has been traced only in the blood of its victims. These two before you stand accused of breaking that law, written on Sinai‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat sacred law on which hangs all the security of the society that we have so laboriously wrought out of chaos and horror‚ÅÝ‚Äîand we are now about to show you why they are thus accused.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúFrom the first step that each took toward the dark way that was to lead them to the room in the gardener‚Äôs cottage, we will trace them‚ÅÝ‚Äîto its very threshold‚ÅÝ‚Äîacross its threshold. There I will leave them, my duty will have been done. Yours, gentlemen, will be yet to do, and I am entirely convinced that, however painful, however hateful, however dreadful, it may seem to you, you will not shrink from performing that duty.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The compelling voice with its curious ring fell abruptly to silence‚ÅÝ‚Äîa silence that lingered, deepened, and then abruptly broke into irrepressible and incautious clamour.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSilence! Silence!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Ben Potts‚Äôs voice and Judge Carver‚Äôs gavel thundered down the voices.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOnce and for all, this courtroom is not a place for conversation. Kindly remain silent while you are in it. Court is dismissed for the day. It will convene again at ten tomorrow.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The redheaded girl dragged stiffly to her feet. The first day of the Bellamy trial was over.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
